# Package JSON and VSC Launch Scripts

## Configure package.json

Next we need to add some scripts to use in `package.json`.

* **start** think of this as running the production ready build
* **dev** we will use this command most of the time for developing
* **build** think of this as bundling the app for production in webpack

The use of the **dev** command allows us to make use of `ts-node` to compile and run our typescript without worrying about compiling too much. ts-node will use the tsconfig.json that we created earlier and will handle things in a just-in-time (JIT) compiler that compiles code as you go.

To use ts-node we use the `-r` or `--register` flag to hook ts-node into node or nodemon. We do a similar thing with dotenv.

From what i understand the `ts-node/register` tag is like doing `ts-node.register()` in code. Based on the documentation (i am correct).

> You can require `ts-node` and register the loader for future requires by using `require('ts-node').register({ /* options */ })`. You can also use file shortcuts - `node -r ts-node/register` or node `-r ts-node/register/transpile-only` - depending on your preferences.

Also worth noting that we need to use the CLI `-r ts-node/register` because we need to use the `--inspect` flag as well.

From the docs:

>Note: If you need to use advanced node.js CLI arguments (e.g. --inspect), use them with node -r ts-node/register instead of the ts-node CLI.

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "start": "npm run build && node --require 'dotenv/config' --inspect dist/index.js",
    "dev": "DEBUG=app* nodemon --exec nodemon --config nodemon.json src/index.ts",
    "build": "tsc -p ."
  },
}
```

And create nodemons config file `nodemon.json`.

The `execMap` is the `--exec` flag equivalent, this tells nodemon how to run after each restart. The rest is else explanatory.

```json
{
  "ignore": [".git", "node_modules/**/node_modules"],
  "verbose": true,
  "execMap": {
    "ts": "node --require ts-node/register --inspect=127.0.0.1:9229 --require dotenv/config"
  },
  "watch": ["src/"],
  "ext": "ts, js, json"
}
```

## Configure VSC launch

Next we need to instruct VSC how to launch into our app, because spawning the app through the intergrated terminal is a bit of a waste in my workflow (that uses a dedicated terminal monitor).

Create `.vscode/launch.json`.

```json
/* .vscode/launch.json */
{
    "version": "0.2.0",
    "configurations": [
        {
            "type": "node",
            "request": "attach",
            "name": "Attach to remote",
            "address": "localhost",
            "port": 9229
        },
    ]
}
```

Now while running the application outside of VSC we can just press `f5` and attach to the node process. This also works with remote debugging, just change `--inspect=127.0.0.1:9229` to `--inspect=0.0.0.0:9229`.

### VSC Remote Debugging Docker

I was reading [this blog post](https://mitsuhideohi.medium.com/debugging-uncompiled-typescript-code-running-on-a-docker-container-213418ab2b1f) (and its [repo](https://github.com/MitsuhideOhi/vscode-ts-node-debug-remotely)) which talked about how to do remote debugging in VSC within a docker container.

The author adds this to the `launch.json` Where `/app/*` is the path for the working directory within docker.

```json
{
  "sourceMapPathOverrides": {
    "/app/*": "${workspaceRoot}/*"
  }
}
```

```dockerfile
FROM node:14

WORKDIR /usr/src/app
```

This maps the `/usr/src/app` of the container where node will be running, to the workspace root where vsc will be running, magically fixing the source maps and allowing for debugging to work.

```json
{
    "version": "0.2.0",
    "configurations": [
        {
            "type": "node",
            "request": "attach",
            "name": "Attach to remote",
            "address": "localhost",
            "port": 9229,
            /* Add this */
            "sourceMapPathOverrides": {
                "/usr/src/app/*": "${workspaceRoot}/*"
            }
        },
    ]
}
```
